Continuing on with our introduction to modeling in Blendr series I'd like to talk a little bit about
how to create more complex objects out of basic shapes just like in drawing you can build up complex
objects beginning with the basic shapes of cubes cylinder cone Taurus etc..
So let's look at an example of that.
First of all I'm going to collapse these windows together.
I'm going to right click in between the windows choose join area and you see I can move this arrow up
and down I'm going to collapse this up into the top window.
So I get back to this main window here I'm going to start on a brand new layer over here and with an
empty scene what I'd like to do is begin working on a picket fence and a picket fence is a classic example
of a relatively complex object that is built up with just multiple basic shapes.
So you find in that complex object the basic shape and then duplicate it or expand upon it to create
the larger object.
So to create a picket fence we're going to begin with a cube and I'm going to just go to my scale tool
here and scale this up a bit until we get it to be about the right size.
Maybe go like this and maybe like yes I'm going to go ahead and hit the period key on the number pad
to frame that up and center the tumble of rotation around that point.
And so this will be my first piece of the fence.
Move this up and have it sit up here on the grid.
Now what I'd like to do is create a little curved piece at the top of this to do that.
I'm going to insert a few edge loops so I'll tab into edit mode.
I'll hit the A key to de-select everything.
And now once again I'm going to use the loop cut and slide tool with control r and I'm going to hover
over this edge and scroll the mouse wheel one time to get to edges.
I can scroll more to get more but I think I'll just create two.
So I click and then click again to confirm that.
Now I'm going to press control tab to go to face mode here and select this one face and I'm just going
to move up in the Z.
So I'll just press g for grab and move.
And then Z for the z axis and just move that up just a hair so now we have the beginnings of a picket
fence I'll tab out of that.
And there's our ticket now.
Nothing in the real world has exactly 90 degree edges.
This object here has very sharp edges and to make this a little more realistic we can curve or bevelled
these edges so that they catch the light and don't look so perfectly sharp.
So to do that I need to select these edges here.
And now Blendr has several menus based on the component that youre working with.
So if I'm working with edges I can press control E and there is a menu here for edges.
I can also press control f if I wanted to get a menu for faces and I can also press control V if I want
a menu for vertices but since I'm dealing with edges here I'll press control E and right here is a tool
called Bevell and this will help round out those edges.
However I need to point out that the tool is based on the scale of the object.
So if the scale of the object is nonuniform then the Bevil will act strangely in this.
Let me show you what I mean here.
Some unclick bevel.
And as I drag the mouse you can see that it kind of expands the edges.
I can scroll the mouse wheel and add more edges in here but it's not really behaving like I'd want it
to.
I want it to curve the edges.
It's just pulling these out in a flat kind of a way if I tumble around the side you can see that there's
no curve here it's just flat.
How do we fix that.
Well I'm going to press control or command Z to undo this and then I'm going to come back out of edit
mode by by pressing the tab key.
And if I come over here to the properties panel with the End key I can see here that the scale is what
they call nonuniform.
In other words it's got multiple values here instead of just all ones.
And this is because I use this scale tool to stretch and pull the size of this cube and tell it was
the size of a picket for our picket fence.
What I'd like is to have this these values be uniform so to do that in Object mode.
I'm going to press control a.
And that brings up this apply transforms menu.
And I will just apply the scale transformations like that.
And now notice the scale is all ones it's uniform.
Now let's go back into edit mode.
And with these edges still selected all press control E and select bevel.
And now if I do this and drag the mouse out and in until I get something I like here and there we go.
Just dragging the mouse out.
Now you'll notice and I can add edge loops here by scrolling the mouse wheel Now you'll notice that
that bevel is a little bit more like what we were after.
It's rounded on the edges here and that's what I was after is a rounded edge here I'll I'll go back
into object mode and you can see that it's kind of a rounded edge.
So I come over here and do the same thing for the other side.
So like this edge and these edges here like so and then press control the bevel and pull these out as
well so.
OK.
So that is how to get kind of a rounded edge on your object.
Now there are other ways to do this and there are some caveats of course like the scale issue we just
talked about but also if I tumble way down here to the bottom of the object and go into edit mode you
can see that this face right here if I click on these edges you can see that this is a polygon with
quite a few sides to it.
In fact I can see up here where it says Virts edges faces.
I can see that I have 10 edges selected and in the object there is a total of 94.
Well this 10 edges on one face.
Could be a problem if I'm going to try and smooth this or if I'm going to try and sculpt this object
having faces with more than four edges can be a problem.
Generally speaking you want to work with quads or four sided polygons.
This is a 10 sided polygon.
You can also work with tries three sided polygons or in guns polygons that have more than four sides
and that's what this is an Ngan now because I'm not going to try and smooth it and I'm not going to
try and sculpt it.
This will probably be just fine but I just wanted to warn you about this using the bevel tool can easily
create in Gonz when you don't mean to.
So I just wanted to point that out.
And now what we need to do is create a few more a few more Picketts say maybe we want 12 Picketts in
this particular fence segment.
Now we've already seen how to duplicate objects with shift.
So I could select this object press shift D.
I'm going to click and I want to move with the move manipulator just over a bit like that.
And then I could hit shift D and I could move it again.
But the problem is is I'm not getting exact wits between each of these objects.
If I press shift D and then click and drag again I can try and get it by but I'm not really getting
the same distance between each of these.
So how did duplicate objects and get that consistent distance between them.
So I'm going to delete these with the x key and choose delete.
So what I'm going to do is use a tool or a modifier called the array modifier.
Now modifiers can be found over here under the little wrench icon.
So when I click that.
And here is our ADD modifiers menu.
So I click that and here are all the modifiers that we can use.
And here is the array here.
Now each one of these will allow you to add a modifier and be able to adjust it in a nondestructive
way.
And then once you have the modifier settings the way you like them then you can apply them and make
them permanent.
So I'm going to go ahead and choose the array modifier here.
And over here we have quite a few settings and things to play with not going to stretch this out a bit
so we can see this now each modifier has these buttons up here.
In other words this little camera means that we can see the modifier during the render right.
We can turn that off and on we can see the modifier in the viewport or not.
Or we can see the modifier when we're in edit mode These buttons are common to most of the modifiers.
But let's take a look at this.
I've got now two pickets Picketts the array modifier has created is created an array of two objects
based on that original.
Now I can increase the count here.
So two three four five.
And what I want is I want 12.
So I'm just going to type in 12 and hit enter.
So now I have 12 Picketts here and remember that this is nondestructive.
This isn't actually happening this is kind of a preview I can turn this off.
It isn't actually there.
I'll turn it back on.
And now I'm going to change the the offset between these.
Currently it's at 1 if I just click this arrow and increase that you can see increasing the distance
between each one but add an equal amount.
So let's say I want my picket fence to have this much distance between each picket.
So as I said when you're done adjusting the settings of the modifier you can then apply them by just
clicking apply and then we have it.
Now this is all one object.
I can hit the tab key and see them all in edit mode at the same time.
And then we have our 12 tickets.